You want to consider your audience here. So remember that you're building this for real people and it's best to ask those people some really good questions, and consider their needs in the project environment so you can set up a more useful schedule. So on your team side, do you know what your team is already working on and for how long? If you want a three to six month window into their capacity, this is going to tell you where you can actually allocate their time. 


Do you share access to a team calender? 

If not, you should. 

Do you have a team schedule? If not, we've provided you with a team scheduling workshop template that you can run with your team to get clarity on that cadence. And we provided it a little earlier, but here it is again just in case. Is anyone new on your team, or has anyone recently joined? Have they been onboarded properly? Have their holidays been planned? Or have they forgotten to tell you about them? What skill sets are available or definitely missing in this project? How much experience does your team have? Do they need any training or practice in the technology that they'll be using? Does this mean that they actually might take longer than you think they will? Are any teammates remote? What time zones have you agreed on? And what kind of overlap will you be setting up so that you can have good check-in times for progress? Maybe with remote teammates you wanna make sure that you're available in an overlapping setting, east coast to west coast, maybe three to five hours. Also ask yourself do you need contracts? Will they be available? Are you sure? What time zones do they work in? And when have you communicated that this work will finish? So if you're saying end of day Wednesday, end of day your time, or end of day their time? This is really important. Then let's look at your external stakeholders. So really how many people are going to be consulted or informed? Do you have a review panel? Do you have a giant board of directors like like Tiny Bio? Corralling all these extra decision makers takes time so you wanna keep this group tight knit as possible and make sure that your point of contact does the corralling for you. Each person involved in the direction can totally add days, weeks or even months to your project schedule. Remember back in our lesson two on working with people we talked about how the stakeholder distance from the project is often inversely proportional to the amount of power they have. So the further away they are from your project, often the more power they have to totally dismantle your best intentions and your project schedule. Do you have direct access to your point of contact? If not, you won't be able to see and get transparency on the expectations for deadlines and schedules on their side. Do your external stakeholders have vacations booked? Are they taking kids to soccer practice on Wednesdays? Do they do volunteer work or only work half time? Do they share their role with somebody else? Get them to walk through their expectations and their schedules before you start. Tell your stakeholders that you're gonna need about five to 10 hours a week from them, depending on the size of the project, for the duration of the project. So you might not need five to 10 hours, but this is about setting up clear expectations from them from the start. When they know how much time to spend with you, they'll be better able to allocate that. If they just think they're supposed to check in once in a while, that's all they're going to do, right? So help them help you by giving them clarity about what they need to clear from their schedules. Make sure you design a clear process for updates around schedules on your stakeholder side. So maybe you have alerts in a slack channel. Or maybe you send an email in advance. You really don't wanna receive an out of office response if you're not expecting one, and neither do they. Have your stakeholders ever used this product or technology or platform that you're making? Are they tech savvy? Will the point of contact change and need to be trained? Who all needs to be trained on this? So for the Tiny Bio application, how are you going to handle things once you actually deploy? Are you going to continue to build them as part of (mumbles) future phase? Are they going to gradually pick up more of the keys to the project and be able to work on pieces internally? Are you going to help train their team in what they need to do? All of this stuff impacts your scheduling and your intuition on how you're gonna build your schedule. Where will this onboarding or training live? So are you going to write up instructions or directions? Are you going to have inline commenting if it's like a CMS project or a website project? Are you going to record demos or are you going to have little training videos? What will they do on the Tiny Bio side or on your project side if they lose access to these training videos or documentation? These are all seriously important questions to ask up front.