You can go ahead and set expectations around your schedule. Clear expectations build space for you to have a conversation about timelines before they slip, so that when they do you actually have a clear plan for how you're going to handle them together. So those expectations are so important right they establish boundaries, they clarify rules, they build trust, and they really help you and your stakeholders collaborate more transparently and deeply. So just being clear and upfront about how those deadlines work and how those delays impact your project are going to really allow you to have a frank conversation and be crystal clear about your implications. You can be super warm and friendly when you do it, just like a dentist explaining how to brush your teeth and how that would prevent tooth decay right? It's a painless conversation unless you've never talked about it in the first place and now your dentist is getting the drill ready without explaining why, right? Then it hurts. So be a good dentist, I mean project lead and make sure you have a great conversation about scheduling upfront. Here's how you can set and manage your expectations on your project. 

- Clarify how much time stakeholders should spend on the project each week
- Support building alignment early on and all the way through, ask if it's an immovable deadline 'cause most aren't real. 
- Then do something around a strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats analysis so you can do a SWOT analysis to make sure that you can see what the impact of changing the schedule will be. 
- Confirm that the scope matches the timeline, share your process with your team and your stakeholders so they know why you're doing it and how, and then make sure you have a plan for schedule drag. So before it happens, what will we do if it does happen.