Okay, one final thing to think about as you're scheduling. It's time to set up your major meetings and your checkpoints. So now that you've got a healthy schedule laid out in front of you, you wanna block out any non-flexible meetings like kickoffs, reviews, and handovers. This is really important up front, if you can, because these, if they require more people to meet, you don't wanna spring this on people at the last minute. So you can always push your kickoffs and approval dates later, but it's a good idea to be up front and pre-plan a few of those anticipated milestones together so that you can communicate early on if things need to change.

If you're setting a more flexible calendar, then just share a clear planning policy so that folks know what's coming up this week and they can put time aside for reviews and handovers. Make sure you clarify that plan if someone is not going to be available. So will their absence affect the schedule or not? So for example, if it's somebody who just needs to just be informed, it likely won't impact the schedule. But if someone needs to be consulted, it likely will. So just have a conversation about that, be really clear up front. This is a handy list of meetings and handovers that you probably wanna include in a typical software design or development project. Obviously, if you're working on different kinds of projects, just adjust these to fit your own project type, but basically you wanna make sure that you're scheduling and thinking about things like internal, pre kickoff, and kickoff meetings, internal design, and feature reviews, client or external stakeholder design and feature reviews, board or panel reviews, check-ins, and progress updates, internal quality assurance sessions, training and onboarding sessions, future phases or iterations, launches and celebrations.